---
title: Compat mode
description:
  This section documents the compatibility mode and feature flags introduced in
  Front-Commerce, in order to be compatible with behaviors or libraries from 2.x
  and allow a progressive migration.
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## `@front-commerce/compat`

Once your app is migrated to the latest version of Front-Commerce after applying
the migration process, your code might still be using deprecated patterns or
libraries. These patterns were used in earlier versions of Front-Commerce but do
not make sense in the current version. There are often better alternatives that
are more performant and aligned with current best practices in the React/web
ecosystem.

To help with the migration process, we provide and maintain the
`@front-commerce/compat` package. This package allows you to progressively
migrate your code and benefit from the latest improvements in Front-Commerce.
**We recommend creating an action plan to refactor code which uses** modules
from `@front-commerce/compat`.

Ultimately, you must strive to remove any code that depends on
`@front-commerce/compat` from your project. New Front-Commerce projects must not
use this package!

## `v2_compat` configuration

When using deprecated patterns or features, even though we tried to ease the
migration path, you might still face some unexpected issues in a standard
Front-Commerce application.

In order to ensure a smooth migration, we have created `v2_compat` feature flags
that you might have to enable in your Front-Commerce configuration
(`front-commerce.config.ts`) so Front-Commerce works in the way you expect.

```js title="front-commerce.config.ts"
export default defineConfig({
  extensions: [
    /* â€¦ */
  ],
  v2_compat: {
    // Enable feature flags here
    // useApolloClientQueries: true,
    // useApolloClientSSR: true,
  },
});
```

### `useApolloClientQueries`

Default: **`false`**

This feature flag must be enabled if your application uses Apollo to run
**client-side queries**.<br />If your application uses the `graphql()` HOC, you
must enable this feature flag.

Without it, you will experience issues in development mode upon hydration.

### `useApolloClientSSR`

Default: **`false`**

This feature flag must be enabled if your application uses Apollo to run your
client-side queries also during **server-side rendering**.<br /> If your
application uses the `graphql()` HOC for **SEO critical content**, you must
enable this feature flag.
